So to show hot deployment in action,
we'll write a client application that will make calls against a server.
And the server will be very simple.
It will be the quote server we've used in previous modules,
so that will be a class that implements an interface with a getQuote method.
The client can load up that class and call getQuote and print out the quote.
We'll load the client code using the application ClassLoader,
but we'll load the server code using our own ClassLoader.
That means that we can force the clients to reload the
server code at any time by creating a new ClassLoader and
reloading the server classes.
To ensure we keep the separation of the classes,
we'll build our server code, so the ServerImple.java,
into a serverclass directory.
And we'll build the client code,
the Client and the Server interface definition, into the classes folder.
So we'll point the application classpath at the classes folder,
and then our own application will create a ClassLoader that references the
serverclass folder and we'll load the server classes from there.
And that will give us some control over when and
how we load those server classes.
To make life slightly easier,
we've created an Ant Build file called build.xml here.
And the Ant Build file has separate build steps for
the client and for the server.
When I build the client, we output the classes to this build directory,
and the build directory is simply classes.
When I build the server, we output the classes to the serverclass directory,
and the serverclass directory is serverclass.
So serverclass here for the server classes,
and the client classes go into the classes directory here.
So writing the server, first of all,
so the server interface has a simple method called getQuote,
and we need a ServerImple.java. So in here we'll have public class
ServerImpl, and ServerImpl implements ServerItf.
And we need to implement the methods on the class.
So into our getQuote method, we can return a quote,
and let's return something like One small step for man.
So for the Client code, we'll need to do a couple of things.
We'll have the Client iterate, asking the user for input.
We'll allow the user to select what they want to do.
So they can, for example, either print the quote,
or they can quit the application,
or we'll also give them an option to allow them to reload the server.
The Client code will also need to be written to allow us to reload the server,
so we'll write that code first.
So here we'll have a public static void method called reloadServer.
And we'll have this just throw an exception,
as there'll be few exceptions our code here will throw.
Inside here we need to create a URL array.
We'll call this thing urls.
We'll say new URL array,
and then we'll initialize this with a new URL, and the URL we specify
here will be the location off our server classes.
So this will be something like ./serverclass,
remembering the file protocol for this.
Once we have that, we can create a class loader.
So we can say cl = new URLClassLoader, and to this class loader we can
pass the URLs. So we just pass in urls. And from that we can create an
instance of our server. So we can say server =cl.loadClass, and we'll
give this the name of our class, and that's com.pluralsight.ServerImpl.
And then we'll call .new instance on this to create the instance of the
class that we need. And we'll need to cast this to be the right type.
So we can now write the loop inside the main function to
allow us to read the user's input.
So the loop code will look something like this. We create a BufferedReader,
allowing the user to enter something from the keyboard.
We print out a message telling the user what to enter, and then,
depending on what that message is, we'll do the appropriate command.
So if they enter QUIT, we'll close the application, if they enter QUOTE,
then we'll print out the quote, and if they enter RELOAD,
then we'll reload the server.
The server isn't loaded yet,
so before we do anything else we need to call
reloadServer to load the server here.
This throws an exception, so we need to add that
exception to our method signature,
and then we also need to make that call here when the
client asks to reload the server.
If the client enters the QUOTE command,
we can take the server variable from above and call
server.getQuote, and we can print that out. So we can
print out the message to the console.
And at this point, we're good to go.
So if I take my Ant Build file and run build and check the
messages, they seem to have built okay,
and we can now run this application from the command line. So we can
run the code from the command line, say java ‑cp classes
com.pluralsight.Client, and we get the message.
So from here, we can type QUOTE, and we get One small step for man.
So what we can now do is go back into our code, we can change the message, so
One giant leap for mankind. Using the Ant Build script,
we can just build the server code.
Look at the messages and we see this code is built.
If we go back to the command prompt and type in RELOAD and then type
in QUOTE, we now get One giant leap for mankind. So we've reloaded the quote server without reloading the application.